<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ld4">
    <title>LD4</title>
    <body>
        <section id="section_jny_fxy_d5b">
            <title>Block 1</title>
            <p>Today, I'll be talking about metadata crosswalks in the context of linked open data.
                I'd like to begin with a quote from a white paper published by NISO, the National
                Information Standards Organization, which states: <q>There is currently no accepted
                    standard method of specifying all the transformations required for crosswalk
                    development.</q> That white paper, written by Margaret St. Pierre and William
                LaPlant, was published in 1998, and the statement continues to hold true today.
                Paradoxically, our work to create crosswalks between metadata standards remains
                almost completely ad hoc and unstandardized.</p>
            <p>When I use the term <q>crosswalk,</q> I mean a translation between two different
                metadata standards. The terms <q>mapping</q> and <q>crosswalk</q> are often used
                interchangeably, but a mapping can be seen as one component of a crosswalk.</p>
            <p>St. Pierre and LaPlant define a crosswalk as <q>a set of transformations applied to
                    the content of elements in a source metadata standard that result in the storage
                    of appropriately modified content in the analogous elements of a target metadata
                    standard.</q> They emphasize the importance of structured documentation in
                crosswalk development, and they state: <q>A complete or fully specified crosswalk
                    consists of both a semantic mapping and a metadata conversion specification. The
                    metadata conversion specification contains the transformations required to
                    convert the metadata record content compliant to a source metadata standard into
                    a record whose contents are compliant with a target metadata standard.</q>
            </p>
            <p>According to this definition, a mapping is a structured document that specifies how
                an element in the source standard should be represented in the target standard, with
                a focus on preserving semantic alignment between the two. A mapping should also be
                accompanied by a set of rules or algorithms for content conversion, which takes into
                account the structural and conceptual differences between the standards.</p>
            <p>The other main component of a crosswalk is the implementation, or how the mapping is
                expressed as computer code. Mappings and conversion rules are typically created by
                metadata professionals, whereas an implementation may be developed in collaboration
                with software engineers.</p>
            <p>Setting aside the definition of a <q>complete or fully specified crosswalk,</q> we
                know that in practice metadata crosswalks can exist on a broad spectrum from
                informal to formal, even in production environments. In an informal crosswalk, a
                metadata mapping is implemented directly in computer code, with no structured
                documentation to accompany it. In a formal crosswalk, detailed documentation is
                provided to specify both semantic mappings and rules for content conversion (St.
                Pierre and LaPlant 1998).</p>
            <p>In the linked open data domain, an example of informal and formal crosswalks can be
                found in the Library of Congress MARC to BIBFRAME converters. In 2012, an informal
                crosswalk was released for BIBFRAME 1.0. It was implemented using the XQuery
                programming language and was iteratively developed over the course of several years.
                In 2017, a formal crosswalk was released for BIBFRAME 2.0. A suite of specifications
                was developed to document both semantic mappings and conversion rules and to provide
                comprehensive coverage of the MARC 21 Format for Bibliographic Data. The
                specifications were implemented using the XSLT 1.0 programming language. For each
                specification document, corresponding unit tests were developed for the codebase.
                Subsequently, a BIBFRAME to MARC crosswalk was released using the same rigorous
                approach.</p>
            <p>In an article published in 2018, Xu, Hess, and Akerman give a detailed overview of
                the Library of Congress marc2bibframe2 project. They cite the definition of a
                crosswalk presented in the 1998 NISO white paper and argue that the Library of
                Congress BIBFRAME 2.0 crosswalk embodies <q>the same best practices recommended by
                    St. Pierre and LaPlant.</q></p>
            <p>I would agree that the Library of Congress marc2bibframe2 crosswalk and its companion
                bibframe2marc project represent a major milestone in the library community's long
                transition from MARC to linked open data. Creating, implementing, and maintaining a
                comprehensive crosswalk from MARC 21 to a linked data framework is a monumental
                task, and one that library metadata practitioners have struggled with for well over
                a decade.</p>
            <p>At the same time, although the marc2bibframe2 crosswalk meets the standard of being
                    <q>fully specified,</q> it does not itself follow a standardized approach in the
                way in which its documentation is structured. The mapping specifications for the
                crosswalk are published as a series of 18 Microsoft Excel spreadsheets that are
                concise, but not designed to be machine readable. They rely on visual formatting and
                indentation as a way to group fields, subfields, and coded values, and they cannot
                be processed as tabular data. The mappings are complemented by a pair of Microsoft
                Word documents that describe certain transformation rules in greater detail,
                including instructions that apply across multiple MARC fields. Again, these
                documents are designed to be read by humans rather than computers.</p>
            <p>In general, the lack of a standard framework for metadata crosswalks means that
                crosswalks cannot be easily shared and reused as structured documentation. Without a
                standard way to customize a mapping for local requirements, community adoption
                becomes more difficult. In their discussion, Xu, Hess, and Ackerman also raise the
                question of whether the BIBFRAME crosswalks are flexible and extensible enough to be
                used outside the Library of Congress. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Block 2</title>
            <p>I'll now present a possible solution to the problem of metadata crosswalk
                standardization--a solution that is still very much as work in progress, but that
                has been successful in fulfilling our use case at Yale University. </p>
            <p>At last year's LD4 Conference, I presented with Rob Sanderson about a multiyear
                effort at Yale to create a cross-collection discovery environment that is being
                designed using the principles of Linked Open Usable Data. I won't describe the
                project in detail today, but I refer anyone who's interested to the recording of our
                presentation.</p>
            <p>Yale's new integrated discovery platform is called LUX, or “light,” from the Latin
                motto of the university. LUX aggregates metadata from the catalogs of Yale's four
                main collecting units: the Yale University Art Gallery, the Yale Center for British
                Art, the Yale University Library, and the Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History.
                LUX is being built around the Linked Art profile of the CIDOC-CRM ontology as its
                common data model. Each unit has developed its own crosswalk from its local domain
                standard to the Linked Art model. </p>
            <p>The library uses Ex Libris Voyager as its integrated library system, and there are
                currently 12.5 million MARC records in its public catalog. MARC 21 is a complex
                legacy standard with thousands of data elements. Our own local cataloging practices
                have also evolved over time, and we have locally defined fields, especially for
                special collections, that are not part of the standard. When creating a crosswalk,
                we need to translate from the semantics of MARC--which are essentially the semantics
                of the card catalog--to the semantics of the Linked Art model, which has clearly
                defined entities and relationships. For example, one challenge we face is in mapping
                object- or item-level relationships. The Linked Art standard is closely tied to the
                museum domain, where objects are the focus of description. In the library catalog,
                by contrast, holdings and item records are sparse, and information about different
                objects is often recorded on a single bibliographic record.</p>
            <p>For the library, the data transformation process has involved close collaboration
                between metadata librarians in Technical Services and software engineers in Library
                IT. Early on, we decided that a spreadsheet-based mapping from MARC to Linked Art
                would not satisfy our requirements. The tabular format of a spreadsheet makes it
                difficult to supply contextual information to guide those who are ultimately
                responsible for implementing a crosswalk in code. The transformation from MARC to
                Linked Art often involves complex conditional logic, and it can be necessary to
                combine data from multiple fields in a MARC record to produce the desired
                output.</p>
            <p>The approach that we adopted, and which has evolved over time, was to create a set of
                modular specifications, which are structured almost as a handbook. There are
                currently 133 separate documents in the specification suite, with a primary division
                between top-level entities (objects, works, people, places, concepts) and
                descriptive content (identifiers, names, and notes). Some specifications provide
                information to contextualize a metadata concept. These are paired with documents
                that specify individual tasks or algorithms needed to implement a particular
                mapping.</p>
            <p>Having a set of specifications has also made the task of implementation easier to
                manage. Individual specifications can be assigned to developers for work, and the
                structure of the code can be guided by the conceptual structure of the
                specifications. Collaboration between Technical Services and Library IT has
                benefited as a result and could serve as a potential model for future efforts at
                Yale.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Block 3</title>
            <p>Yale's MARC to Linked Art crosswalk has been documented using the Darwin Information
                Typing Architecture, or DITA, which is an XML standard for documentation and
                technical writing that emphasizes structure, modularity, and content reuse. The DITA
                standard is based on the idea of topics. A topic is a discrete unit of information
                that can stand on its own. DITA topics are organized into a logical structure using
                another type of document called a map, which can be thought of as a table of
                contents.</p>
            <p>Without realizing it, you've probably encountered DITA in the wild when browsing
                online help pages. For example, I recently purchased a smart watch and noticed what
                looks like DITA in the owner's manual. </p>
            <p>Here the topic is <q>Intensity Minutes.</q> It has a subtopic called <q>Earning
                    Intensity Minutes</q> and a containing topic called <q>Activity
                Tracking.</q></p>
            <p>DITA supports topic specialization, which means that the generic topic type can be
                extended to accommodate more specific types of information. Out of the box, the DITA
                standard defines a core set of topic specializations, including
                    <codeph>concept</codeph>, <codeph>task</codeph>, <codeph>reference</codeph>, and
                    <codeph>glossentry</codeph> for glossaries.</p>
            <p>Each topic specialization has its own content model, while also inheriting from the
                core DITA topic type.</p>
            <p>This example demonstrates a <codeph>task</codeph> topic, which lists a series of
                steps to be followed.</p>
            <p>DITA also defines a robust set of mechanisms for content reuse. Topics or individual
                sections within a topic can be repurposed and transcluded into other topics, and
                content can be profiled to display information based on conditional filters. Using a
                content-agnostic standard such as DITA, it's possible to create metadata mapping and
                conversion specifications that are both human- and machine-readable. Documentation
                can be generated in multiple output formats while maintaining a single source of
                truth. The DITA standard has an active open source software community and is also
                well supported by editing environments such as the oXygen XML Editor.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Block 4</title>
            <p>In using DITA to document our MARC to Linked Art crosswalk, I relied heavily on the
                    <codeph>task</codeph> topic to specify steps </p>
            
            
            <ul>
                <li>Demo, examples</li>
                <li>Git repos</li>
                <li>oXygen output (?)</li>
                <li>Content reuse</li>
                <li>specs to code</li>
                <li>Tracking spreadsheet</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
